Oh no, that is not good! That is not good! Boys anyway!
Now you have it crashing.
Oh my God! (laughter) That is so realistic.
I thought I would go over the edge.
This is Mevea Simulation in Lappeenranta, in Finland,
which make some of the most realistic industrial simulators in the world.
These simulators can be used for training the operators
or for research and development of the machine.
You can test different types of designs of the machine.
The seat and the controls are the same as in the real machine.
The control system of the machine does not know that it is controlling a simulator.
I just instinctively looked down to see what was there!
Yes, you are trying to keep yourself alive!
And the screens support 3D?
That is not enabled today because of the cameras,
but this system supports full 3D rendering and can also follow my head.
Yes. That is possible if you wish.
But it does not look like the other staff here.
This is controlled by three computers.
Intel i7, 3.5GHz, and a GTX 780 graphics card.
The people from Mevea told me that they had a material handler simulator
which I should definitely try. And then ... then ...
... they told me they had friends at a steel plant.
And uh ...
Tjah (!)
- All right. - Sit down.
- Turn the seat. - Yep.
- I'll help you a little. - All right.
Good. Now you are ready to start.
The movements of the joystick - so, left, right ...
Oh, that's weird! Oh, that's ... aah!
That is much faster than I thought it would be.
Okay then.
The thing is, and this is very weird ...
I did not think about that movement. That was just ...
it was clearly the right thing to do.
Pull the right joystick towards you.
- All right. Oh! That's fast. - Up and down.
Whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa. Whoa. All right.
- Careful with that! - Yes. It is much...
... much stranger - Because, in a simulator
so much seesaw would not be so disturbing.
In real ... it is very disturbing.
And now ... okay, you've understood.
- And now, up ... - Up.
Here we go. And in.
All right. And now, grab? - Yes.
Yes. And then...
- Close it again. - I've got it.
All right.
Well, now raise it a bit more.
- Go to the left? - Yes.
This ... open.
I'm okay. Yes. I spilled a bit of that.
But it did not matter much!
How does it look? Does that go into it?
I think so, yes.
That looks like it goes into it.
- Calm down. - Quiet. Quiet.
A bit more...
- Well done. Then open it. - Letting go? - Yes.
- All right! - Now again.
Now again!
Cool, is not it?
Pfff ... I'll let you know when my heart is back below 200 beats per minute!
Thank you to everyone at Mevea Simulation!
If you want to know more about them, the details are now on the screen,
including a link to their YouTube channel.
Leave it there. - Letting go. - And then open.
Well done!
Translation by Grimlor.